---
layout: post
title: "My foray into DDD, TDD, MVC and NHibernate"
date: 2009-03-17
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 42
categories: [DDD]
---
If you are closely following the things that are happening around the
.NET development arena, there is a lot of interest in DDD ( Domain
Driven Design ) along with other
[TLA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-letter_abbreviation)’s like TDD
( Test Driven Development), MVC ( Model-View-Controller ) etc. It was
hard for me not to notice the buzz around DDD and got me interested in
it. As the title says, I would want to see what these things mean and
how to develop an application around or rather using these technologies.

So I am going to start a “Learn as you build” series in which I build a
blog engine using these technologies ( or methodologies ). This is not a
full fledged blog engine mind you. This is a process of learning new
things and blog engine is just right to start of with ( along the lines
from this
[post](http://ifacethoughts.net/2007/09/19/want-to-learn-web-programming-write-a-blog-engine/)).
If you are looking for a full featured blog engine, you can have a look
at [BlogEngine.NET](http://www.dotnetblogengine.net/) or
[DasBlog](http://www.dasblog.info/) or
[SubText](http://www.subtextproject.com/) and many more I guess.

Along with these things I would also want to explore NHibernate which is
an ORM ( another TLA!!! ) and MoQ ( a mocking framework ). Well I think
I am getting into a lot of things, probably more than I can handle, but
lets see where these things lead me.

I would appreciate any sort of suggestions that might help me in diving
into these things.

More blogs to follow on these lines.

